docs/evaluation/restructure_imputed_data.md, before:

!!! abstract "Requirements"
    - Ubuntu 22.04 (8 CPUs, 32 GB)
    - bcftools (version==1.13)


=== "Low-pass sequencing data"
    ## Low-pass sequencing data
    !!! input "Input data"
        - lpWGS VCF files
        - [Population meta][4]

    ### Merge imputed data

    !!! code
        Merge samples from imputed batches
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/lps/MERGE_batches.sh
        --8<--
        ```
    
        - [merge_batches.sh][1]
        - [rename_samples.sh][2]

    ### Restruct imputed LPS VCFs
    !!! code
        Imputed VCFs is restructured by supperpopulation
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/lps/VCF_imputed_population_slipt.sh
        --8<--
        ```

    !!! output "Output data"
        - restructed lpWGS VCFs

=== "Pseudo SNP Arrays data"
    ## Pseudo SNP Arrays data
    !!! input "Input data"
        - SNP-array VCF files
        - [Population meta][4]

    ### Merge imputed data
    !!! code
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/array/MERGE_batches.sh
        --8<--
        ```

        - [merge_array_batches.sh][3]

    ### Restruct imputed Pseudo-array VCFs
    !!! code
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/array/VCF_imputed_population_slipt.sh
        --8<--
        ```

    !!! output "Output data"
        - restructed SNP-array VCFs

=== "True VCFs"
  
    ## Prepare true VCFs according supperpopulation

    !!! input "Input data"
        - Imputation panel
        - [Population meta][4]

    ### Processing
    !!! code
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/lps/VCF_true_population_slipt.sh
        --8<--
        ```

    !!! output "Output data"
        - True VCFs being collected by supperpopulation


[1]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/blob/main/evaluation/merge_sample/bin/merge_batches.sh
[2]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/blob/main/evaluation/merge_sample/bin/rename_samples.sh
[3]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/blob/main/evaluation/merge_sample/bin/merge_array_batches.sh
[4]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/tree/main/support_data/2504_infos.tsv

Commit message:

update: add tiny note for restruct data

docs/evaluation/restructure_imputed_data.md, after:

After the imputation process, the data must be stratified by the five superpopulations (EUR, EAS, AMR, AFR, SAS) to enable population-specific evaluation.

!!! abstract "Requirements"
    - Ubuntu 22.04 (8 CPUs, 32 GB)
    - bcftools (version==1.13)


=== "Low-pass sequencing data"
    ## Low-pass sequencing data
    !!! input "Input data"
        - lpWGS VCF files
        - [Population meta][4]

    ### Merge imputed data

    !!! code
        Merge samples from imputed batches
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/lps/MERGE_batches.sh
        --8<--
        ```
    
        - [merge_batches.sh][1]
        - [rename_samples.sh][2]

    ### Restruct imputed LPS VCFs
    !!! code
        Imputed VCFs is restructured by supperpopulation
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/lps/VCF_imputed_population_slipt.sh
        --8<--
        ```

    !!! output "Output data"
        - restructed lpWGS VCFs

=== "Pseudo SNP Arrays data"
    ## Pseudo SNP Arrays data
    !!! input "Input data"
        - SNP-array VCF files
        - [Population meta][4]

    ### Merge imputed data
    !!! code
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/array/MERGE_batches.sh
        --8<--
        ```

        - [merge_array_batches.sh][3]

    ### Restruct imputed Pseudo-array VCFs
    !!! code
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/array/VCF_imputed_population_slipt.sh
        --8<--
        ```

    !!! output "Output data"
        - restructed SNP-array VCFs

=== "True VCFs"
  
    ## Prepare true VCFs according supperpopulation

    Preparation of true VCFs involves extracting the corresponding samples from the reference panel for each of the five superpopulations.

    !!! input "Input data"
        - Imputation panel
        - [Population meta][4]

    ### Processing
    !!! code
        ```bash linenums="1"
        --8<--
        evaluation/merge_sample/lps/VCF_true_population_slipt.sh
        --8<--
        ```

    !!! output "Output data"
        - True VCFs being collected by supperpopulation


[1]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/blob/main/evaluation/merge_sample/bin/merge_batches.sh
[2]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/blob/main/evaluation/merge_sample/bin/rename_samples.sh
[3]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/blob/main/evaluation/merge_sample/bin/merge_array_batches.sh
[4]: https://github.com/KTest-VN/lps_paper/tree/main/support_data/2504_infos.tsv
